Basic ideas

The Internet of Things consists of 'things' such as sensors, devices, machines, and intelligent edge nodes of all
types. These things have existed at the edge since the earliest days of the Internet and have becoming increasingly
popular in recent times. These 'things' exist in both the consumer space and the industrial application spaces.
Let's call these 'things' points. These points are able to generate data with a volume, variety and velocity that
surpasses anything we have seen from human input. An IOT platform is one that embraces  the diversity of these
points at the edge and facilitating their orchestration as a coherent realtime dataflow network.
Thus enabling action based on their collective input.

Examples
1) A large building with embedded sensors that efficiently manages the consumption of energy resources
2) A complex machine such as a car or aircraft
3) A home
4) An industrial manufacturing plan
5) A complex network of inner city traffic controllers

What are the basic requirements of an IOT platform that would enable the broad vision given above? Lets begin by
looking at the points on the edge

Points
1) Able to deal with a variety of protocols both legacy and modern (e.g. Bacnet, Modpus, IP, etc)
2) Able to translate the data into a standard format from any protocol (e.g. id, timestamp, value)
3) Able to deal with the velocity of real-time data on ingress and egress

Computing at the Edge
1) Able to intelligently filter data at the edge
2) Able to intelligently transform data at the edge
3) Able to intelligently control points on the Edge
4) Able to operate safely when disconnected from the network (important if you are controlling expensive equipment)
5) Able to detect errors on the Edge
6) Able to restart failed filters, transformers and standalone processes (Observation and Supervision of edge processes)

Dataflow Networks
1) Able to create, update and delete dataflows that define a solution
2) Able to define rules that enable decisions in dataflows
3) Able to define actions that are called based on decision rules
4) Able to monitor actions and rules and restart flows if any of these fail
5) Able to define a broad class of actions that can be executed if a decision is made via set of rules
6) Ability to run dataflow networks at different levels of the IOT "hierarchy" - in devices, in connected
   standalone servers or in clusters.